Ponzi Scheme  

Recruit people each to deposit ten pounds  
with the promise to reward them with a fifty per cent gain in less than a year.  
The gains could, in fact, be staggered...so,   
an investment of one months gets thirty per cent interest;    
an investment of two months gets forty per cent interest;   
an investment of three months gets fifty per cent interest.  
-This is bearing in mind that most banks offer a measley ten per cent or less interest, yearly.-

There are two/or, three main considerations to have to note...  
- The creator of the scheme must be able to make money for themselves...which is, in fact, their primary goal    
- Secondary consideration, the investors themselves must also be allowed to make money...; after the agreed set time period.    
...this scheme is mainly for those who are interested in making money 'quick'.

In actual effect the scheme works like so...  
- for each ten pounds invested...the scheme owner/provider takes fifty per cent for themselves as wages...;
  therefore, out of each ten pounds being invested/they take five pounds  
- assuming we have, at least, ten investors all investing ten pounds each...ten X ten = one hundred;  
  then, the scheme owner/provider takes out of the hundred pounds invested...fifty pounds for themselves as wages.  
- next, when a certain time period is reached, as was promised to each investor, be it: one/two/three months...; then, each investor  
gets paid accordingly...;  
- payments are dished out on a 'rotating' basis...;  
  so, when a 'new' investor joins in the scheme...;  
  half of their money goes to the scheme owner/provider....the other half is used to pay off the first investor;    
  when a next person joins the scheme...   
  half of their money goes to the scheme owner/provider....the other half is used to pay off the second investor;       
  and, so on...     
- we have to assume that more and more people are joining in with the scheme, constantly, all the time, as it grows. 

One strange point to note is the 'last' investor...doesn't get back any money at all...; 
not until when a next investor comes along to go pay them.  

Basically, what's actually happening here is one is actually 'robbing Peter in order to pay back Paul'  
I believe, this is called a version of the famous 'Ponzi scheme'.  

----

DISCLAIMER NOTE: I'm not telling anyone else to go and do this...; quite honestly, I believe it's against the law; 
my only point of interest here is to record how Ponzi schemes work...; or, at least, in theory. 
